When performing optimizations, the optimizer tries to maximize the objective as
much as possible. This means, one operates in the limit of the modeling process
used. Imagine an airfoil optimization where the goal is to increase the maximum
coefficient of lift $c_{l}$. In this example, only one design variable is
available: the angle of attack $\alpha$. To simulate the airfoils performance, a
Reynolds Averaged Navier Stokes (RANS) approach is implemented. During the
optimization, the optimizer increases $\alpha$ right until the point where the
flow starts to separate as this is the point where the highest $C_{l}$ lies for
an airfoil. But this means, it is absolutely necessary to accurately predict the
point of separation. When this is not the case, the optimizer exploits effects
that do not exist in reality and thus the whole optimization is useless.

ADflow is an open source RANS solver that also computes the gradients of the
objective (and constraints) with respect to the design variables in an efficient
matter called the \textit{adjoint method}. In real life aerodynamic applications
as airplanes or wind turbines, surface contamination plays an important role.
The primary effect of such contamination is a roughening of the surface. Thus it
is important to be able to simulate and optimize for rough surfaces. The goal of
this project is to implement exactly this in ADflow.


\section{Goals}
As said before, the goal is to be able to simulate and optimize taking the
effects of rough surfaces into account. ADflow's primary turbulence model is
known as \textit{Spalart Allmaras} (SA). It is a one-equation model that was
proposed in 1992. It is widely used for external aerodynamic applications. In
2002, a modification for rough surfaces was published. This project implements
this modification. Thus the projects aims may be listed as follows:

\begin{itemize}
  \item Modify the existing SA turbulence model for rough walls
  \item Test and verify the implementation.
  \item Use \gls{ad} to differentiate the newly added code. This is needed for
the adjoint method.
  \item Test and verify the modified gradients.
\end{itemize}


\section{ADflow}
Before heading straight in, a few words about ADflow and its history are
provided. It is an open-source RANS that is developed and maintained at the
university of Michigan. It is based on a structured, multiblock solver called
\textit{sumb} and has been adapted for gradient based optimization by means of
\textit{Algorithmic Differentiation}\footnote{Thats what AD stands for in
ADflow.} and the \textit{adjoint method}.

In optimization, a lot of simulations are necessary until a optimal design is
found. It is also highly important to always get an objective value for each
design, even if, or especially when, it is unphysical. Otherwise the optimizer
does not know how bad the current design might be.


To cater those regiments, ADflow employs some highly efficient and robust
NK\footnote{NK stands for the Newton–Krylov method.} and ANK\footnote{ANK is an
approximated Newton–Krylov method.} solvers. Those can achieve machine-precision
convergence, even for aircraft configurations at an angle of attack of 90\degree
\cite{Mader2020a} \cite{Kenway2019a} \cite{Yildirim2019b}.


Most of ADflow is written in Fortran. But it is interfaced in Python. This means,
the heavy lifting is done in a fast language, but the regular user has the
benefits of an object-oriented high level interpreter language.
